feat: Prepare PHP Release Docs (#2242)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/php/guides/laravel/configuration/capture.mdx

<PlatformContent includePath="capture-message" />

## Customization

### Decorating the Client Builder

Starting with version [`1.5.0`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-laravel/releases/tag/1.5.0) of [sentry-laravel](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-laravel) you can customize how the PHP SDK client is built by modifying the client builder.

You might want to do this to, for example, replace the transport or change the serializer options used, which can only be changed when building the client.

The snippet below must be placed in the `register` method of a service provider (for example your `AppServiceProvider`).

In this example we increase `maxDepth` to 5 in for the default serializer.

```php
use Sentry\Serializer\Serializer;
use Sentry\ClientBuilderInterface;

$this->app->extend(ClientBuilderInterface::class, function (ClientBuilderInterface $clientBuilder) {
    $clientBuilder->setSerializer(new Serializer($clientBuilder->getOptions(), 5));

    return $clientBuilder;
});
```

### User Context

> Starting with Laravel 5.3 we can automatically add the authenticated user id to the scope if [`send_default_pii`](configuration/filtering/#send-default-pii) option is set to `true` in your `config/sentry.php`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Laravel 5.3 we can automatically add the authenticated user id to the scope if [`send_default_pii`](configuration/options/#send-default-pii) option is set to `true` in your `config/sentry.php`.
```

---
title: Advanced Usage
sidebar_order: 7
excerpt: ""
description: "Learn more about automatically reporting errors, exceptions, and rejections as well as how to manually capture errors and enable message capture."
---

Sentry's SDK hooks into your runtime environment and automatically reports errors, exceptions, and rejections.

The most common form of capturing is to capture errors. What can be captured as an error varies by platform. In general, if you have something that looks like an exception it can be captured. For some SDKs you can also omit the argument to `capture_exception` and Sentry will attempt to capture the current exception. It can also be useful to manually report errors or messages to Sentry.

Separately to capturing you can also record the breadcrumbs that lead up to an event. Breadcrumbs are different from events: they will not create an event in Sentry, but will be buffered until the next event is sent. Learn more about breadcrumbs in our [Breadcrumbs documentation](/platforms/javascript/enriching-error-data/breadcrumbs/).

## Capturing Errors

> In JavaScript, you can pass an error object to `captureException()` to get it captured as an event. It’s also possible to throw strings as errors, in which case no traceback can be recorded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Laravel, you can pass an error object to `captureException()` to get it captured as an event. It’s also possible to throw strings as errors, in which case no traceback can be recorded.
```

<PlatformContent includePath="capture-error" />

## Capturing Messages

Another common operation is to capture a bare message. A message is textual information that should be sent to Sentry. Typically messages are not emitted, but they can be useful for some teams.

<PlatformContent includePath="capture-message" />

## Customization

> ### Decorating the client builder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Decorating the Client Builder
```

Starting with version [`1.5.0`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-laravel/releases/tag/1.5.0) of [sentry-laravel](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-laravel) you can customize how the PHP SDK client is built by modifying the client builder.

> You might want to do this to for example replace the transport or change the serializer options used which can only be changed when building the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might want to do this to, for example, replace the transport or change the serializer options used, which can only be changed when building the client.
```

The mechanism to add more user context to the scope will vary depending on which version of Laravel you're using, but the general approach is the same. Find a good entry point to your application in which the context you want to add is available, ideally early in the process.

In the following example, we'll use a middleware to add the user information if a user is logged in:

```php
namespace App\Http\Middleware;

use Closure;
use Sentry\State\Scope;

class SentryContext
{
    /**
     * Handle an incoming request.
     *
     * @param \Illuminate\Http\Request $request
     * @param \Closure                 $next
     *
     * @return mixed
     */
    public function handle($request, Closure $next)
    {
        if (auth()->check() && app()->bound('sentry')) {
            \Sentry\configureScope(function (Scope $scope): void {
                $scope->setUser([
                    'id' => auth()->user()->id,
                    'email' => auth()->user()->email,
                ]);
            });
        }

        return $next($request);
    }
}
```

> ### Log channels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Log Channels
```

</markdown></Alert>

Starting with Laravel & Lumen 5.6 we can setup Sentry using log channels.

To configure Sentry as a log channel, add the following config to the `channels` section in `config/logging.php`:

```php
'channels' => [
    // ...
    'sentry' => [
        'driver' => 'sentry',
    ],
],
```

After you configured the Sentry log channel, you can configure your app to both log to a log file and to Sentry by modifying the log stack:

```php
'channels' => [
    'stack' => [
        'driver' => 'stack',
        // Add the Sentry log channel to the stack
        'channels' => ['single', 'sentry'],
    ],
    //...
],
```

Optionally, you can set the logging level and if events should bubble on the driver:

```php
'channels' => [
    // ...
    'sentry' => [
        'driver' => 'sentry',
        'level'  => null, // The minimum monolog logging level at which this handler will be triggered
                          // For example: `\Monolog\Logger::ERROR`
        'bubble' => true, // Whether the messages that are handled can bubble up the stack or not
    ],
],
```

> ### Queue jobs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Queue Jobs
```

> When you have defined a `failed` method on your job class ([documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/6.x/queues#cleaning-up-after-failed-jobs)) that failed method acts as if your job runs inside a `try {} catch (\Exception $e) {}` and this will prevent reporting exception causing the job to have failed to be reported to Sentry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you have defined a `failed` method on your job class ([documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/6.x/queues#cleaning-up-after-failed-jobs)), that failed method acts as if your job runs inside a `try {} catch (\Exception $e) {}`. This will prevent reporting exception, causing the job to have failed to be reported to Sentry.
```

> This could be what you want since your job sometimes fails because of an API that is not reachable or other expected failures. If you still want the exception to be reported to Sentry you can do the following in your `failed` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could be expected since your job sometimes fails due to an API that is not reachable or other expected failures. If you still want the exception to be reported to Sentry, you can implement the following in your `failed` method:
```

```php
/**
 * The job failed to process.
 *
 * @param \Exception $exception
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function failed(\Exception $exception)
{
    // Send user notification of failure, etc...

    if (app()->bound('sentry')) {
        app('sentry')->captureException($exception);
    }
}
```

> #### Naming your log channels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Naming Your Log Channels
```

> If you have multiple log channels you would like to filter on inside the Sentry interface, you can add the `name` attribute to the log channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To filter on multiple log channels inside Sentry, you can add the `name` attribute to the log channel.
```

It will show up in Sentry as the `logger` tag, which is filterable.

For example:

```php
'channels' => [
    'my_stacked_channel' => [
        'driver' => 'stack',
        'channels' => ['single', 'sentry'],
        'name' => 'my-channel'
    ],
    //...
],
```

> You're now able to log errors to your channel:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, you can log errors to your channel:
```

```php
\Log::channel('my_stacked_channel')->error('My error');
```

And Sentry's `logger` tag now has the channel's `name`. You can filter on the "my-channel" value.

> ### Resolve name conflicts with packages also called Sentry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Resolve Name Conflicts
```

Reviewer 2: Would this topic be better in Troubleshooting?

> To resolve this, you'll need to create your own service provider extending ours so we can prevent naming conflicts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have other packages also named Sentry, you'll need to create your own service provider extending ours so we can prevent naming conflicts.
```
